Model with migration will have multiple populations with relatively small differences to represent the small range over which the individuals actually travel
Model of single populations however can be run multiple times with bigger differences in the parameter values representing environmental differences, as populations are present all throughout Europe. Depending on computing power this may even be run with much larger population sizes, so e.g. larger regions with many ponds can be represented as a single population.

It is important to run simulations both at small and very large population sizes, particularly to see if big differences occur. If this is not the case that justifies using smaller population sizes in general, allowing for more simulations to be run without reducing the validity of the results.
Many other simplifications may be run like this, such as only specifying single fecundity parameters for each morph, or even putting baseline fecundity of both heterochrome morphs equal. This last one however is risky as from personal experience Infuscans females tend to be more camouflaged in specific environments, and the opposite may be true for Obsoleta in other environments. Additionally, as in many populations other species are also present, the potential 'confusion' of males of other species can easily lead to reduced fecundity in one of the heterochrome morphs due to mating harassment by other species regardless of I. elegans.

Should males have a baseline preference from the 'learning search'? Previous research (e.g. Takahashi2014) tends to assume or state that males develop a search image based on previous mating attempts, but if that is the case how do fully naïve males find their first potential mate. Statistical analysis of this year's experiments may give some results, but regardless it is an interesting question in several ways. It should also be noted that fully naive males used in experiments should realistically be very different from virgin males in nature, which are again different from experienced males. Wild males used in experiments presumably fit in both categories, although it is hard to know which is more common. In hindsight another interesting experiment could involve using wild-caught green, more immature, males, which have had significant exposure to fellow I. elegans in the wild, but should not have mated yet. Comparing the preference of those individuals with the preference of both fully naive and experienced males could shed light on potential learning before the first mating attempts, and what actually triggers males to 'learn'. It should be noted that mating attempts with other species are presumably (and based on small-sample anecdotal evidence) rare, although male-male interactions seem relatively common. Similarly observed interactions between males and immature (violacea) females are rare, although some interactions with rufescens females have been observed. (It is possible that thorax colour is the main determining factor for males to identify potential males, and the tail-light is mostly ignored). This could indicate that at least part of the search image is either instinctive or learnt before the first mating attempts, with male-male interactions possibly being the result of the presence of androchrome females.
Another important question to consider, which could potentially make the model significantly easier to use, is whether males develop a search image for a single morph which they may change based on negative experiences, or if they simply have a preference and will only choose a specific female when multiple options are available, preferring one morph over another. Some phrasings in papers seem to indicate an assumption of males having a search image of a single morph for a day, which could be different the next day. In experiments however some males have been observed repeatedly switching between two females of different morphs, which would indicate they do not (always) have a 100% preference for a specific morph. This could also indicate that the search image may switch due to negative experiences, as in the experimental setup mating was physically impossible, despite potential acceptance by the female.

To throw a complete curveball into the learning predictions, Takahashi2009 seems to suggest that males do not have retain any memories from previous days, instead developing new preference each day based on experiences that day. This could mean the entire learning/preference part of the simulations needs to be rewritten, although it should be noted that the evidence for this claim is indirect even if somewhat strong. It should be assumed that even though a different species was used here, the behavioural differences between different species of Ischnura are probably negligible.

Interesting possibility to consider: make a model with absolutely no learning and see if it is statistically different from real-life observations. If so it is at least circumstantial evidence for learning having an effect on evolution. 
