# Findings
## Introducing a new Morph
While repeated simulations do confirm earlier suspicions that it is much easier for a phenotype coded by a dominant allele to infiltrate a population, they also show that resistant alleles do have a potential to arise in populations, and then be maintained through NFDS. The probability of this happening is noticeably lower, and this is particularly notable when introducing O into a mono-I population, where the rare phenotype does not have an inherent fitness advantage.  
The simulations also show that introducing a second/third morph into a population does improve female fecundity, even if the newly introduced morph has a lower baseline fitness (A).

### General conclusions
A quadratic-like relationship between morph frequencies and overall female fecundity does appear to show up for all three morphs. The 'optimal' frequency as expected is nearly equal between I and O, but lower for A. Optimal frequencies do not add up to 1, indicating there is not necessarily a balance there, although this may also be simply due to the lack of one morph in the majority of the simulations.  
Due to the large number of simulations, covering most of the 'frequency space', the sigmoid relationship between morph frequency and morph preference does show up in these simulations, even if the deviation from linear is not too big. A linear relationship still fits morph fecundity vs morph frequency best.  
Using the data from these simulations to investigate female fitness in a ternary plot shows the expected distribution, with a nice peak where all three morphs are present, but with a lower A frequency compared  to the other 2 morphs. Data around the peak however is rare and as such more simulations are needed to get a proper indicator of the data. Hopefully the simulations with variation in the level of survival between morphs can assist in this. The migration simulations could also play a role in this, as this may include simulations of populations where 2 morphs are present at low frequencies which has been uncommon so far.

## Migration
Much like when artificially introducing a new morph, migration has a relatively high probability of introducing new morphs into a population. Due to the possibility of repeated migration, as well as the migration of fertilised females, migration in fact has a very high chance of new morphs staying present in populations after they have been introduced. I will need to play around more with numbers to study founder effects etc.
Similar patterns occur compared  to when trying to artificially introduce a new morph. Introducing androchromes into a dimorphic population without androchromes appears to be difficult, although due to an error sample size is fairly small for this. Introducing heterochrome morphs eventually leads to a stabilisation of both heterochromes at the same frequency, but introducing I into a population that already has O is faster than the other way around, presumably due to the dominance hierarchy. Introducing a third morph into a dimorphic population with androchromes present at a 50% frequency leads to a peak in the frequency of the heterochrome morph already present, as the A frequency decreases while the other morph is still settling. Similarly introducing both 'new' morphs into a monomorphic heterochrome population will lead to a peak in A frequency as A females are better at quick introductions due to the dominance of the p allele, while the other morph settles more slowly but is fitter in the long term.  
Therefore it very clearly appears that the more dominant the allele, the more successful a new morph is in invading a new population in the short term, whereas maintaining a morph in the long term is much more dependent on fitness.

## Forming new populations
Unsurprisingly forming new populations requires much higher migration rates than introducing a new morph into an existing population. While obviously more analysis is needed, it appears that new populations are maintained only when they are dimorphic to start. The lack of androchromes in these new populations may simply be due to the low frequency of androchromes in the source population, where they actually went extinct during this simulation. As such it is impossible to say anything useful about the ability to form new populations with androchrome present, especially as it has been shown before that mono-A populations are perfectly capable of being maintained even if at lower population sizes (given no abiotic selection!). In a subsequent simulation with a bigger source population, more new populations formed, with every single one settling on a trimorphic state relatively quickly. Of course as these populations were maintained the frequencies moved to equilibrium, but not a single one out of 7 started with a high A frequency, yet all populations were trimorphic within a few generations. If this pattern persists through repeated simulations, it could indicate that in any case where migration rates are high enough to form new populations, they are almost certainly high enough to maintain diversity. The migration rate threshold for introducing a new morph into an existing population does appear to be much lower than the threshold to form a new population, supporting this hypothesis. Subsequently, the only way populations could form that are not trimorphic would be after a single burst of migration. While this is possible, especially considering the assumed effect of wind on migration, as this migration will usually occur from a polymorphic population, the probability of only a single morph being involved in a burst of migration is relatively low.   
Females in small populations as expected have much higher fecundity compared to populations around equilibrium size. This is to be expected given the lower harassment rates, although in such small populations it can be assumed that there is a serious risk of females not being mated at all. It does however mean that combined with the growth rate generally being closer to logistic when far from the carrying capacity, new populations can grow very quickly when given the chance. It should be noted that this model does not in any way account for interspecific competition, and as such the carrying capacity of a population does not change as *I. elegans* outcompetes another species or is outcompeted.  



## Differential maturation chance
Quick reanalysis of the temperature data from Svensson2019 confirmed my suspicion that the only significant response to temperature differences was found in Infuscans females, although the evidence for an effect in Obsoleta is certainly stronger than in Androchromes. This is an important thing to discuss, as so far I and O have been considered functionally identical. This assumption still makes sense with regards to the geographical variation, but has not been confirmed by the experiments. Additionally it is important to discuss the severity of the effects, and how this should be included in the simulations.  
Early simulations show expected results, with androchrome frequency increasing when their survival to maturity increases and decreasing when survival decreases. Further interactions need to be studied.

## Bottleneck Events
These simulations had a bottleneck event (population size quartered) every 24 generations (number chosen specifically so there would be time to recover after the final bottleneck), to see how many of the 100 populations of each type would recover. Carrying capacities were chosen such that all populations, with their starting morph presence, would have approximately equal equilibrium population sizes. While no conclusive evidence either way could be found, it appears that only mono-A populations have an increased risk of going extinct, with all other populations having around a 20-30% extinction rate. Mono-A populations on the other hand appeared to have a 70% extinction risk, confirming that unsurprisingly monomorphic populations with a morph with reduced fitness are not very successful. Many of the bottleneck events seemed to lead to the extinction of a morph in a population, which subsequently reduced the equilibrium population size as shown before, and thus may lead populations to be more sensitive to further population reduction. However, no baseline extinction differences were found, and in most cases of a morph going extinct this was the androchrome as this is the morph with the lowest equilibrium frequency. No populations were found where A was still present while one of the other morphs had gone extinct. Interestingly it appears in I-O dimorphic populations a bottleneck is slightly more likely to lead to the extinction of I compared to O, probably due to the allele frequency of the r allele being much higher than the q allele if phenotypes are both present around 50%.
