# Findings
It appears that while the simple response within a generation leads to a sigmoid relationship between morph frequency and preference, this not the case when evaluating different populations over multiple runs/generations. Trying to fit a sigmoid curve is equally or less fitting than a linear relationship, and as such it appears there is no real reason to deviate from the linear assumption.
When running regression with no intercept, it appears there is a near 1 to 1 correlation between fecundity of different morphs in the same generation/population. This indicates that the morph frequencies balance out to an equilibrium state where all morphs have equal fecundity. This makes intuitive sense but is nonetheless a very interesting finding. Normally distributed residuals with mean 0 between the gynochrome morphs, A fecundity slightly lower compared to the other 2 morphs.

# Effects of changes in the model
The changes to female promiscuity have had the effect that was hoped for, and seems to massively reduce the chances of morph 'extinction'.
Ignoring non-existent morphs in the preference has made the analysis slightly trickier, however it appears reasonable. It should be noted that this almost certainly has unintended effects on populations without androchromes compared to those with, as all the effects of misidentifying males as potential partners are taken out of the system.
Having each male only encounter a subset of the population at each iteration of the search appears to have solved the issue of rare females being repeatedly harassed by the same male after a successful mating. In the previous model a 'unique' female might mate early on, after which her partner would have an unreasonably high chance of finding her again in subsequent iterations. The subsetting combined with mating success being much lower in mated females reduces this probability.


# Other thoughts
Introduction of a new (rare) morph may be a point where a distinction needs to be made between predator-prey models and sexual selection. A rare new morph will at first either not be recognised as such or 'mistrusted', and as such not be targeted. While this is a pure advantage for a prey by not being eaten, in the case of sexual selection this is less obvious. While not being targeted does reduce the mating harassment, there is a serious risk of not mating at all. This does enhance the effects of drift in smaller populations and for populations where one morph is very rare.
When introducing a new morph in a population through migration, it should be assumed that the preference for this morph is lower than for any morphs already present in the population before. Nonetheless, there should obviously be a possibility for any males to try to mate with this 'new' morph. 
