Model with migration will have multiple populations with relatively small differences to represent the small range over which the individuals actually travel
Model of single populations however can be run multiple times with bigger differences in the parameter values representing environmental differences, as populations are present all throughout Europe. Depending on computing power this may even be run with much larger population sizes, so e.g. larger regions with many ponds can be represented as a single population.

It is important to run simulations both at small and very large population sizes, particularly to see if big differences occur. If this is not the case that justifies using smaller population sizes in general, allowing for more simulations to be run without reducing the validity of the results. Otherwise both simulations need to be run as endgame as well, to simulate the differences caused by population size.
Many other simplifications may be run like this, such as only specifying single fecundity parameters for each morph, or even putting baseline fecundity of both heterochrome morphs equal. This last one however is risky as from personal experience Infuscans females tend to be more camouflaged in specific environments, and the opposite may be true for Obsoleta in other environments. Additionally, as in many populations other species are also present, the potential 'confusion' of males of other species can easily lead to reduced fecundity in one of the heterochrome morphs due to mating harassment by other species regardless of *I. elegans*.

Another important test to run is to separate the populations in such a way that not all individuals are available for mating the entire season, as this is obviously not realistic. It is however much easier to run, and complicating the model unnecessarily would be a shame. Therefore if the results on small scales are similar enough, or if we agree that it is an acceptable simplification regardless, it will be much more convenient to have full populations mating at the same time.

Should males have a baseline preference from the 'learning search'? Previous research (e.g. Takahashi2014) tends to assume or state that males develop a search image based on previous mating attempts, but if that is the case how do fully naïve males find their first potential mate. Statistical analysis of this year's experiments may give some results, but regardless it is an interesting question in several ways. It should also be noted that fully naive males used in experiments should realistically be very different from virgin males in nature, which are again different from experienced males. Wild males used in experiments presumably fit in both categories, although it is hard to know which is more common. In hindsight another interesting experiment could involve using wild-caught green, more immature, males, which have had significant exposure to fellow *I. elegans* in the wild, but should not have mated yet. Comparing the preference of those individuals with the preference of both fully naive and experienced males could shed light on potential learning before the first mating attempts, and what actually triggers males to 'learn'. It should be noted that mating attempts with other species are presumably (and based on small-sample anecdotal evidence) rare, although male-male interactions seem relatively common. Similarly observed interactions between males and immature (violacea) females are rare, although some interactions with rufescens females have been observed. (It is possible that thorax colour is the main determining factor for males to identify potential males, and the tail-light is mostly ignored). This could indicate that at least part of the search image is either instinctive or learnt before the first mating attempts, with male-male interactions possibly being the result of the presence of androchrome females.
Another important question to consider, which could potentially make the model significantly easier to use, is whether males develop a search image for a single morph which they may change based on negative experiences, or if they simply have a preference and will only choose a specific female when multiple options are available, preferring one morph over another. Some phrasings in papers seem to indicate an assumption of males having a search image of a single morph for a day, which could be different the next day. In experiments however some males have been observed repeatedly switching between two females of different morphs, which would indicate they do not (always) have a 100% preference for a specific morph. This could also indicate that the search image may switch due to negative experiences, as in the experimental setup mating was physically impossible, despite potential acceptance by the female.

To throw a complete curveball into the learning predictions, Takahashi2009 seems to suggest that males do not have retain any memories from previous days, instead developing new preference each day based on experiences that day. This could mean the entire learning/preference part of the simulations needs to be rewritten, although it should be noted that the evidence for this claim is indirect even if somewhat strong. It should be assumed that even though a different species was used here, the behavioural differences between different species of Ischnura are probably negligible.

Interesting possibility to consider: make a model with absolutely no learning and see if it is statistically different from real-life observations. If so it is at least circumstantial evidence for learning having an effect on evolution. Otherwise learning may be completely excluded

To have a truly good estimate of the 'viability' of a population, other than size compared to carrying capacity, it could be good to have a single output variable representing fitness, for which we could find the frequencies in each population leading to an optimum average female fecundity. This does risk running into replication of previous non-individual based models, but that should be good as a potential confirmation of the accuracy of this model, which is much more complex and as such has many more possibilities for things going wrong.

# Other Questions:
Has anyone studied the relationship between morph frequency and fecundity? We can assume mating harassment and learnt preference the morph frequency could be a good proxy for the number of times a female has mated, which could potentially indicate a possible optimal number of matings, assuming the optimum (for female fecundity) is more than 1. Alternatively instead of frequency the proportion of mated females of said morph could be used as a proxy. It should however be noted that unless there is a linear relationship between 'number of times mated' and fecundity, it will be hard to determine the true optimum value. Number of eggs is probably the best way to test fecundity, as many factors could lead to a female not laying eggs, most notably the copulation during which they were caught being the female's first, and it being interrupted too early for fertilisation to be possible. If not done before, it should be doable from database, fairly quick analysis?


# Data analysis

When including females that did not lay eggs in the calculations, infuscans females lay significantly more eggs than both other morphs, which would indicate a single average should be used for both androchrome and obsoleta. However if we exclude the egg-less females, the only significant difference is between androchrome and infuscans. The latter could be due to the relatively small sample size of obsoleta females, and the reduced average clutch size of obsoleta females when including 0 is probably in part due to the relatively high frequency of rufescens females in the sample. This however does not explain everything, as when excluding all 'immature' females (Those which have a colour phase specified), this does not change any significance levels, with the exception of the average number of eggs laid no longer being significantly higher in infuscans than in obsoleta. This again is probably due to the small sample size that remains. Whether excluding 'immature' females or not, there is a significantly higher proportion of androchrome females that fail to lay eggs compared to infuscans. If immature females are included, obsoleta females are also significantly more likely to not lay eggs than infuscans females.

Parasite presence has a negative effect on fecundity, and obviously differs significantly between populations, clearly giving a good factor to include as a possible explanation for varying fecundity parameters between populations. For morph differences, see Willink2017
Temperature differences are a clearly relevant thing, see Svensson2019

Proportion of copulating females is positively correlated with morph frequency for both androchromes and infuscans, however this appears not to be the case for obsoleta, which is almost significantly negatively correlated. Whether this is the result of small sample size combined with 'dirty' data, or whether this is a biological correlation is hard to say. It should be noted that correlating with male frequency is tricky, as an increased presence of males would presumably lead to a higher proportion of all females copulating, even if the males have a different preference as a result of the male presence. The effect of male presence on preference can therefore not be deduced from the database.

When only looking at the proportion of mature females however, there is no correlation between frequency and probability of copulating in infuscans females, and surprisingly the correlation for both androchrome and obsoleta females is negative.

Overall the proportion of females copulating differs significantly between all morphs, with 76% of infuscans copulating, 50% of androchromes, and 47% of obsoleta. Again it should be noted that a lot of the obsoleta have colour phase specified, and eliminating the 'immature' females leads to 79% of I, 52% of A, 69% of O.

Androchrome fecundity significantly reduced by an increased androchrome morph frequency. Not the case when including females that failed to lay eggs. Then however increased infuscans frequency leads to increased fecundity, some evidence obsoleta fecundity is increased by increasing frequency of the other morphs (interaction, so more balanced frequency is better???)

Good chance linear regression isnt necessarily the best option, but some patterns are very clear regardless.

For all morphs mating frequency increases with increasing population size. This is less significant in case of infuscans, but should be perceived as a general pattern, and not a morph-specific one. For both androchrome and infuscans there is a significant positive correlation of both log(population size) and morph frequency when both are included in the same model, assuming no interaction between the factors. In obsoleta however morph frequency has no significant effect. These correlations hold whether absolute numbers of individuals caught are used, or adjusted for catching time.

It should be noted that once again when looking at morph frequency relating purely to the mature females, there was a negative correlation between morph frequency and mating rate for both obsoleta and androchrome, also when accounting for population size. It is quite possible that morph frequency when not accounting for maturity functions more as a proxy of maturation frequency, which may very well be similar between males and females. As such, when any given morph frequency is higher, this would also lead to a higher proportion of the present males being mature, and as such a higher chance to be found in copula. Correlation can have many reasons. 

## Question post-analysis
Why do females fail to lay eggs in the cups? Is it more likely due to failed copulation or death/failure to lay eggs after successful fertilisation? Real question being how important is it to include death of mated females in the model, and if so should it differ much between morphs?

How useful is the database in the current state? Many obsoleta are presumably measured as mature as the morph is specified, but they probably should not be counted as mature when recorded to be in the rufescens stage of development. This should be discussed both to see if this should be the case, if it should be adapted for the existing data, and for potential changes in the procedures for future years. The proportion of immature females copulating ranges from 12 to 20% with different morphs, indicating there is a clear reason these should probably be not be noted as mature morphs even if it is possible to tell.

When looking at only proportion of mature females, negative correlation between morph frequency and copulating, how does this make any sense? Similar though less clear results when checking frequency comparing to all females including immature, but that may just be due to the presence of immature females increasing the probability any individual mature female is mating.  
Potential explanation for this unexpected result, at least for heterochrome females, could be that when heterochrome morphs are rare, due to a potential innate preference for these morphs if they are rare they will always be mating, whereas non-mating individuals are more likely to be found when the morph is common, also due to their better 'camouflage' for the human eye. Unclear whether this is a true biological effect or possibly just a side-effect of sampling methods.


# Seriously huge Question
Should the whole learning process be simulated or are there too many uncertainties about learning to have a realistic model. Alternative is to simply use fitness functions from LeRouzic2015, and adjust based on environmental factors, simulating population size etc.
